Code of Conduct Research

Greetings Everyone!

Conduct

I've done some code of conduct research.  The tech movement is a male dominated industry, and this unfortunately has led to pretty awful behavior at tech conferences. As such over the last few years there has been backlash against the hostile environment at conferences, and they have begun to adopt very progressive and respectful codes of conduct. 

I am a huge fan of the entire Django code of conduct:

Django Code of Conduct

1. Be friendly and patient.

2. Be welcoming.

3. We strive to be a community that welcomes and supports people of all backgrounds and identities. This includes, but is not limited to members of any race, ethnicity, culture, national origin, colour, immigration status, social and economic class, educational level, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, age, size, family status, political belief, religion, and mental and physical ability.

4. Be considerate. Your work will be used by other people, and you in turn will depend on the work of others. Any decision you take will affect users and colleagues, and you should take those consequences into account when making decisions. Remember that we're a world-wide community, so you might not be communicating in someone else's primary language.

5. Be respectful. Not all of us will agree all the time, but disagreement is no excuse for poor behavior and poor manners. We might all experience some frustration now and then, but we cannot allow that frustration to turn into a personal attack. It’s important to remember that a community where people feel uncomfortable or threatened is not a productive one. Members of the Django community should be respectful when dealing with other members as well as with people outside the Django community.

6. Be careful in the words that you choose. We are a community of professionals, and we conduct ourselves professionally.

7. Be kind to others. Do not insult or put down other participants. Harassment and other exclusionary behavior aren't acceptable. This includes, but is not limited to:

Violent threats or language directed against another person.
Discriminatory jokes and language.
Posting sexually explicit or violent material.
Posting (or threatening to post) other people's personally identifying information ("doxing").
Personal insults, especially those using racist or sexist terms.
Unwelcome sexual attention.
Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior.
Repeated harassment of others. In general, if someone asks you to stop, then stop.
8. When we disagree, try to understand why. Disagreements, both social and technical, happen all the time and Django is no exception. It is important that we resolve disagreements and differing views constructively.

9. Remember that we’re different. The strength of Django comes from its varied community, people from a wide range of backgrounds. Different people have different perspectives on issues. Being unable to understand why someone holds a viewpoint doesn't mean that they’re wrong. Don’t forget that it is human to err and blaming each other doesn’t get us anywhere. Instead, focus on helping to resolve issues and learning from mistakes.Violent threats or language directed against another person.Discriminatory jokes and language.Posting sexually explicit or violent material.Posting (or threatening to post) other people's personally identifying information ("doxing").Personal insults, especially those using racist or sexist terms.Unwelcome sexual attention.Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior.Repeated harassment of others. In general, if someone asks you to stop, then stop.

We would swap out Django for Group F in our version :) LOL! The Rust language code of conduct is also really good. 

Governance

However, all of these cover conduct, not governance! Governance is it's own thing. If we look at the list the professor posted, most of them have to do with the distribution of labor:

a) What type of language is acceptable to the group (swearing) 
b) How will group work  be organized?  Will you have a rotating leader? Will it be by consensus?
c) How you deal with situations where a group member is not pulling their weight?  
d) How will you deal with situations of excused absence such as illness/tragedy?  Will the person still get a grade for that group work? Will it be lowered?
e) What written communication techniques are acceptable?  Is the use of CAPITALS and excessive punctuation acceptable?!?!?!! 
f) Other issues as you see fit for this work. 
If you look at the wikipedia page for project governance, it has some really good "top level" principles.

Principle 1: Ensure a single point of accountability for the success of the project

Principle 2: Project ownership independent of Asset ownership, Service ownership or other stakeholder group

(and others.) 

As such, I would like to suggest my own answers to Dr. Kertyzia's questions:

a) What type of language is acceptable to the group (swearing) 

This is amply covered in the code of conduct

b) How will group work  be organized?  Will you have a rotating leader? Will it be by consensus?

I'm sure it's not a coincidence that there are 4 group assignments and 4 people in our group! I would suggest that each person in the group be a "group leader" who organizes distributing work across group members, and is responsible for setting assignment timelines and handing in the final work product. We can assign group project leaders any way the group sees fit. I put all our names in my statistics software and asked it to shuffle them, here they are:

"Michelle Stanley"  - October 15th        
"Yolanda Crouse"  - October 29th
"Eduardo Arino de la Rubia" - November 12th
"Sauntee Tate"  - November 26th
Clearly if you know you're going to be unavailable on that week, speak up and let's pick different weeks!

c) How you deal with situations where a group member is not pulling their weight?

I suggest we enforce a structured "check in" process, where work is assigned and checked in with a day or two of buffer before critical dates. If a group member does not pull their weight, the group leader should do everything in their power to engage the member privately. If the group member does not respond privately, then a public call to attention on the message boards may be used. It is the final responsibility of the group leader to complete the group project for the week they are assigned. If the non-contributing member does not pull their weight that week, it is the group leaders responsibility to make up that work (or collaborate with cooperate group members who are capable and willing to share workload.)

If a group member is a non-contributing member, and it is their week to lead the project, only by a majority vote can a group leader be replaced with another group member. This vote will happen on a public forum thread. If a group leader has to be replaced, this will be communicated with Dr. Kertyzia, but the group will continue to manage the project with a newly elected group leader. This is a drastic option that should never come up in graduate school.

d) How will you deal with situations of excused absence such as illness/tragedy?  Will the person still get a grade for that group work? Will it be lowered?

Please do everything in your power to stay healthy and productive. I've heard graduate school described as a marathon, not a sprint :) That being said, things happen. If there is a true excused absence, it should be communicated with the group as soon as possible. All in-process work should be placed on a shared dropbox. It is responsibility of the group leader to fairly partition the work, however it is ultimately their responsibility. If the group leader has an excused absence during a critical time, the group leader from the previous group project will immediately be promoted to new group leader.

e) What written communication techniques are acceptable?  Is the use of CAPITALS and excessive punctuation acceptable?!?!?!! 

I don't have a lot to say about this that isn't covered in the code of conduct. However, I do request that all posts in a thread stay on topic. If you have ideas that are bigger than can be contained in the topic of the original post, create a new post, and link to that post in the original post. Meandering off-topic conversations can be very disruptive to an online learning community.

f) Other issues as you see fit for this work.

I suggest we use a single editing platform, to not have any mac/pc issues. I would suggest the google drive series of tools (google docs for word processing, google presenter, etc...) This allows us a single sharing collaboration platform without having to worry about individual software versions.

Lastly, I would encourage we attempt to find a 15-30 minute block of time, once a week, that we can all have open for an in person touch-base conference call. I will gladly host it on my online meeting platform. I think a single 15-30 face-to-face (virtual) online checkin can probably do wonders for keeping us all on track.
